this we are joined by Thad kou associate
professor of public policy at Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies always
good to speak with you thed so does the
issue of a resolution for Gaza whether
it's a ceasefire need to come back to
the UN Security Council or do the US
representatives comments that we just
heard in that report give us an idea of
any prospects for Progress even if this
comes back to the security Council so
Elizabeth if it comes back to the
security Council and there is an
overwhelming majority vote that calls
for
ceasefire saw exactly earlier in
previous attempts just a couple of
months ago and then the US again V it I
mean it's a symbolic victory for the
Palestinians more or less I mean that
yes there is an overwhelming majority
International majority that is behind
ending this war and it will make the US
look isolated but the question is does
the US Administration really cares at
this stage I mean to be embarrassed or
not embarrassed obviously not I mean uh
sadly I mean from the onset of this war
till now The Diplomatic behavior of the
Americans uh was not uh what would you
expect from a mediator or a broker of
peace I mean the US is sadly has chosen
to be partner to Israel in this war
absolutely the criticism is that it's
acting like Israel's lawyer instead of
an honest broker in in these
negotiations which are set to continue
and we're hearing that even the CIA
director is going to come back to the
region if you're saying that the us
doesn't care about how it looks on the
world stage at the moment so why keep up
these negotiations which aren't going
anywhere so I I think that's a very good
question I mean yes why I mean um let's
look at this last visit of blinking to
the region I mean just a week before it
the US has agreed or supplied Israel
with a major also uh uh major weapons to
enable it continue its War so in one
hand they continue delivering weapons to
Israel and then they pretend that there
are some diplomatic efforts to get to to
a solution I think the US Administration
now the Biden administration at this
stage I think more or less it has what
is doing is just the act of pretending
that they are engaged in some sort of
diplomacy to have a ready answer for all
these angry and committed voters in the
US who keep asking why can't we stop the
war and the answer is we're trying but
in fact the reality they're not they're
just siding by Israel I think the
behavior of the US Administration is uh
from my own view is so far is that
they're committed to help nanyo to
achieve the victory he's looking for and
so far he has not but that Victory is
not possible is it and I mean officials
from across the board including American
officials have said it's not possible to
defeat Hamas they have been saying this
from the on onset of this word but now
we we have reached to we're getting into
the 11th month uh I mean I mean soon of
this War and what the Americans have
been saying actually their actions are
totally in the opposite direction
they're doing the opposite Gaza as it
stand today it's a tragedy it's a it's a
living tragedy this unicid the war has
totally changed the face of Gaza forever
uh Hamas also is not in a good position
because Hamas is under huge pressure
because it is a resistance movement and
and a governing party as well so none of
the declared goals that Hamas has also
declared on the onet of this War has
been achieved and now they're faced with
this the Hungary the massacring these
these all civilians that are suffering
so they see Hamas and Israel at the same
time they see Hamas as their government
government that is unable to stop this
war at the same time Israel is left
alone to do whatever it wants in Gaza so
when it comes to this I think the
Israelis and Americans are betting that
they're almost there they want to see an
end of Hamas they're they have
assassinated their top leaders now it's
about hearing Hamas accepting to say yes
we're defeated
but ham not going to do this because
it's it's it's a it's suicidal for Hamas
but the thing is who's going to stop
this war again the Americans they have
the leverage they have not been using it
and they're still coordinating and
helping the Israelis to to to to find
this Victory to appease n Mr kmu we've
run out of time but thank you very much
for your analysis we really appreciate
it thank you